# 4D Assert Text File Analyzer

> ## IMPORTANT NOTE
> This application is a WORK IN PROGRESS. It is quite raw and may not work well at all.

## Description

This application can be used to import and analyze assert text files generated by debug or assert versions of 4D.

> ## IMPORTANT NOTE
> A debug or assert version of 4D is REQUIRED to generate the necessary log file, this tool is USELESS without this.
> 
> Assert versions of 4D may be provided in the course of a Technical Support case, when necessary.

## Usage

Launch the application with 4D v13.  It has three functions currently (access via File menu):

* Import log data; note that this will be double or triple the size of the log and it's pretty slow.
* Define categories; use regex patterns to recognize messages in the log.
    * There are hundreds (if not thousands) of possible messages, so it definitely does not recognize them all.  I have found this must be tuned for each log file. Feel free to delete categories you don't care about.
    * Categories have an "order"; this is the order in which they are searched. Place the most common categories higher (close to 1) in order to speed up the search.
* Analyze log data; this uses HighCharts to plot log events over time.

## Notes

* The input/chart analysis form has duplciate form objects for the start and end time; this is because the Timepicker widgets do not function correctly when changing the interval, so you can manually edit the start/end time as needed.
* The charts are saved next to the data file in a folder named "session_charts".
    * Because the data file can be quite large, I recommend creating a single data file for each database, maybe even each session. This way the charts stay with the data file.
* It does not work compiled, HighCharts isn't working in compiled mode (ACI0081292).
* It only supports 4D v12 assert text files, 4D v13 has a different format.
* It has been tested on a log file that was 1 GB without issue so it seems to be able to handle large logs.

* [VC_Framework](https://github.com/4D/vc-framework-v13) is included to track code changes.

## To Do

* Ability to prevent a message category from being displayed in the chart.
* Support for 4D v13 logs.
* Bug: Fix Timepicker issues.
* Scroll through whole days.
    * If a sessions has more than one day of data the chart will only work correctly if you set it to a single day.
* Notes field or some sort of notepad for each session.
* Bug: When editing categories, if there is no category for a contained order value you can't assign it. E.g. if you have 1 and 3, you can't assign 2.